---
layout: post
title: "A Simple Plan to get Strong"
author: Steve Scott
date: 2015-06-28
comments: true
subtitle:   "Start small and be consistent"
tags: strength habit
header-img: "img/pushup.jpg"
---

Fitness Guru Jack LaLanne at age 93 said, "It takes strength to do them, and it takes endurance to do a lot of them. It’s a good indication of what kind of physical condition you’re in.[^jack]"

A modern fitness guru, Robert MacDonald, aka Maximus, writing for Men's Health says, 

> "For the average  guy, it’s critical to carry your own engine.By that, I mean that you should strive to be strong relative to your size. A good test of your engine is seeing how many consecutive pushups you can do in a row. I work with some of the fittest people in the world, and I think that 50 consecutive perfect pushups is the standard to shoot for—it shows me you can carry your engine.[^max]"

Maximus recommends doing pushups everyday.  His advice is reminiscent of Russian strong man who recommends *Greasing the Groove* by focusing on frequent repetitions of low volume to build up strength.  Instead of trying to break down muscle, you gradually build up strength.

McDonald posted an astonishing [workout](https://instagram.com/p/sle1AqFuze/) of 1,296 push-up daily reps.  He tracked his workouts on a 7x7 grid.  

Unfortunately, I have lapsed to the point in which I can only do two consecutive push ups.  The good news is I am inspired and have a plan.  I can do 1 perfect pushup.  My plan is to do 1x20 pushups over the course of the day.  So, over the course of the day I will drop to the floor and crank out 1 perfect pushup.  Over the course of the day, I'll rack up 20.  Over the course of the week I will rack up 140.  As I get stronger and the pushup is "normalized" I will add more reps.  I will keep this up until I reach my goal of 50 consecutive pushups.  Let's see how long it takes!

[^jack]: http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/11/health/nutrition/11well.html
[^max]: http://www.menshealth.com/fitness/how-to-do-50-perfect-pushups